EV trends
1.AI-Powered Vehicle Health Checks
2.Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS)
3.Improved Connectivity Features
4.Charging Infrastructure Development
5.Smart Grids
6.Advancements in Battery Technology
7.Sustainable Material Disposal
8.Energy Efficiency and Regenerative Braking
9.Hydrogen Fuel Cell Vehicles (FCVs)
10.Safety Concerns With ADAS
11.Integration of Connectivity Features
12.Limitations in Battery Technology
13.Robust Testing and Safety Standards for Autonomous Driving
14.Enhanced Connectivity Protocols and Cybersecurity Measures
15.Innovations in Battery Technology

Consumer Behavior
 
Digital transformation is impacting every industry, and the automotive industry is no exception. With electric and hybrid vehicles on the road increasing significantly over the past 10 years, the automotive industry is experiencing the biggest revolution since the invention of the Model T.
There were more than 10 million electric vehicles (EV)s on the road in 2020, and with this shift in car buying trends comes new consumer behavior. The manufacturers and dealerships that understand this shift and evolve simultaneously with their sales, marketing, and customer experience will be the ones that find the most success.
Millennials, like myself, simply don t want to engage in the traditional car-buying experience. We are happy to trade five-hour car dealership experiences for 10 clicks or less to buy a car online. A recent New York Times article shared that millennials were almost twice as likely to shop for and buy a car completely online. They want more transparency into car pricing and an easier, less convoluted buying experience. The in-person sales pitch at the dealership just isn t working for this generation. The manufacturers and dealerships that embrace this new way of thinking have the best chances of outmaneuvering their competition.
Recent studies show that the average EV owner has remained the same over the past 10 years,: 40-55 year old males with an annual household income of more than $100,000. But as sales continue to increase at a fast rate, year over year, it s likely new trends and demographics will emerge.
With EV prices likely to become more affordable in coming years, we ll probably see more millennials get behind the wheel of a battery-powered car. In recent research, The Fuels Institute found a collection of trends that leads a consumer to ultimately make a purchase:  Affordability, availability, and familiarity appear to be amongst the key factors influencing likelihood of EV purchases. 
Overall, McKinsey predicts an industry- and consumer-wide adoption of EVs in the next decade.  In 2030, the share of electrified vehicles could range from 10 percent to 50 percent of new-vehicle sales. Adoption rates will be highest in developed dense cities with strict emission regulations and consumer incentives (tax breaks, special parking and driving privileges, discounted electricity pricing, etc).  The more environmentally focused a city or state, the more likely that area will have higher numbers of EVs.
Interestingly, one of the biggest concerns for current and potential EV buyers is  range anxiety.  According to Kalibrate, more than 50% of drivers are worried that an EV will run out of charge while traveling. A lack of charging stations, as well as faulty or broken stations, is also concerning for car buyers contemplating an EV.


Ev Trends in 2024
As we step into 2024, big changes are happening in the EV industry and the electrification of transportation. Electric vehicle trends for 2024 include lower electric car prices, an expansion of EV charging stations, and greater EV charging plug compatibility. Read on to learn about EV industry trends and how they're shaping the future of the electric vehicle market in the coming year. 


Sales are expected to keep growing in 2024, despite some reports suggesting a decline in 2023. Even though more EVs are sitting unsold at dealerships, the actual electric car sales numbers are still strong and their market share is growing. There will be nearly 1.9 million EV sales in the U.S. in 2024, according to projections.
The third quarter of 2023 showed the best market growth in EV sales since late 2021, and by September, over 1 million new EVs were sold in 2023. Though EV sales estimates for 2024 were adjusted down a bit, they still predict a 20% increase from 2023. Cox Automotive also thinks that in 2024, more than 10% of all vehicle sales will be electric, and when including hybrid vehicles, almost 24% of 2024 vehicle sales will be electric or hybrid.